[DOCU-3032] KIC in Konnect: explanation topic (#5371)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/runtime-manager/kic.md

---

> title: Kubernetes Ingress Controller Integration

Author: ❗ Reviewers: I don't love the name of this. As I was working on this and reading the brief, I didn't think "KIC in Konnect" was the best title because I thought some customers might be thinking more along the lines of "I use Kubernetes, how do I get my stuff into Konnect?" vs. "I want to add KIC stuff to Konnect". "KIC in Konnect" seemed to feature focused instead of use case focused.

content_type: explanation
---

You can use native Kubernetes resources to configure your clusters in Konnect by integrating your KIC deployment with Konnect. This set up is ideal for organizations who want to manage gateways in Konnect through native Kubernetes resources without having to use a hybrid deployment model. This guide explains how to add a KIC runtime group to {{site.konnect_short_name}} and the benefits of this integration. 

## About KIC in Konnect

> Kubernetes Ingress Controller (KIC) for Kong configures {{site.base_gateway}} using Ingress or [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/) resources created inside a Kubernetes cluster. KIC for Kong performs more than just proxying the traffic coming into a Kubernetes cluster. You can also configure plugins, load balancing, health checking, and leverage all that {{site.base_gateway}} offers in a standalone installation. For more information about KIC for Kong, see [Kubernetes Ingress Controller Design](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/concepts/design/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.kic_product_name}} (KIC) for Kubernetes configures {{site.base_gateway}} using Ingress or [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/) resources created inside a Kubernetes cluster. 

Beyond proxying the traffic coming into a Kubernetes cluster, KIC also lets you configure plugins, load balancing, health checking, and leverage all that {{site.base_gateway}} offers in a standalone installation. For more information about KIC, see [{{site.kic_product_name}} Design](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/concepts/design/). 
```

* **Display KIC entities in Dev Portal:** Publish your KIC services to the Dev Portal and make the API specs available to third-party developers. 

## KIC in Konnect integration

To integrate your runtime instances in KIC with Konnect, you can use the wizard in the UI to add your KIC deployment to Konnect by navigating to **[Runtime Manager](https://cloud.konghq.com/runtime-manager) > New Runtime Group > Kubernetes Ingress Controller**.

{:.note}
> **Note**: KIC OSS users can connect to Konnect’s Free tier, while KIC Enterprise users can connect to Konnect’s Enterprise tier.

### Prerequisites

If you don't have an existing KIC deployment, you need the following before using the instructions in the wizard:
*  A Kubernetes cluster 
* `kubectl` or `oc` (if you're working with OpenShift) installed and configured to communicate with your Kubernetes TLS
* [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) installed

### View KIC entities

After your KIC deployment is connected to Konnect, you can view the details for each runtime instance in your KIC runtime groups. 

> [SCREENSHOT]

Author: ❗ Reviewers: I'm still not sure how to take a full size screenshot with Dev Tools, though I think it could be good to have one here?

Reviewer: Diana is already adding a dashboard screenshot here: https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/5399

It won't hurt to add the same screenshot temporarily to the doc with a one-liner, then update when the UI is finalized.

> Table with things from screenshot of dashboard?

Author: ❗ Reviewers: I thought we could add a table that describes the parts of the screenshot here, though I'm not sure how useful that would be since I think the UI is pretty intuitive here.

Reviewer: Answered in parallel screenshot PR.

Beyond proxying the traffic coming into a Kubernetes cluster, KIC also lets you configure plugins, load balancing, health checking, and leverage all that {{site.base_gateway}} offers in a standalone installation. For more information about KIC, see [{{site.kic_product_name}} Design](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/concepts/design/). 

By integrating your KIC deployment with {{site.konnect_short_name}}, this read-only integration allows you to view your runtime entities, such as routes and applications, from your Kubernetes resources in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.  

Here are a few benefits of running KIC in {{site.konnect_short_name}} over a self-managed setup:
* **Easy to set up:** The wizard allows you to add your KIC runtime group to {{site.konnect_short_name}} in minutes.
* **Monitor your KIC analytics:** By integrating with {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you can view the analytics from your KIC runtime instances alongside any of your self-managed {{site.konnect_short_name}} runtime instances. 

> * **Display KIC entities in Dev Portal:** Publish your KIC services to the Dev Portal and make the API specs available to third-party developers. 

Reviewer 2: Dev Portal integration has not been released yet for KIC. Should we keep this benefit in for now? Or mark it as "future"capabilities?

---

> title: Kong Ingress Controller for K8 Association

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Kong Ingress Controller for Kubernetes Association
```

Reviewer 3: based on discussion, we're replacing "K8" as internal shorthand used when referring to the full product name.

content_type: explanation
beta: true
---

> You can use native Kubernetes resources to configure your clusters in {{site.konnect_short_name}} by associating your Kong Ingress Controller for K8 (KIC) deployment with {{site.konnect_short_name}}. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can use native Kubernetes resources to configure your clusters in {{site.konnect_short_name}} by associating your Kong Ingress Controller (KIC) for Kubernetes deployment with {{site.konnect_short_name}}. 
```

This setup is ideal for organizations who want to manage gateways in {{site.konnect_short_name}} through native Kubernetes resources without having to use a hybrid deployment model. 

## About KIC in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

{{site.kic_product_name}} (KIC) for Kubernetes configures {{site.base_gateway}} using Ingress or [Gateway API](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/) resources created inside a Kubernetes cluster. 

> Beyond proxying the traffic coming into a Kubernetes cluster, KIC also lets you configure plugins, load balancing, health checking, and leverage all that {{site.base_gateway}} offers in a standalone installation. For more information about KIC, see [{{site.kic_product_name}} Design](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/concepts/design/). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Beyond proxying the traffic coming into a Kubernetes cluster, KIC also lets you configure plugins, load balancing, health checking, and leverage all that {{site.base_gateway}} offers in a standalone installation. For more information about KIC, see [Kong Ingress Controller Design](/kubernetes-ingress-controller/latest/concepts/design/). 
```

Reviewer 3: replacing variable w/ text for now
